# Coodbook for tidy_data

tidy_data is a product data set generated by the run_analysis.R script provided in this repo, after applied on the raw data
that are described in the Readme file.

tidy_data is a data frame with 180 rows and 68 columns. 

## Variables

### 1st column - "subject". 
there are 30 subjects numbered 1 - 30.

### 2nd colume - "activity".
there are 6 types of activity in this data set: 
1) "WALKING". 
2) "WALKING_UPSTAIRS".
3) "WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS".
4) "SITTING".
5) "STANDING".
6) "LAYING"

### 3rd to 68th colume - Average and Standard deviation of Full sets measurments. Types of measurments:
* TimeBodyAccelerometer: Body Accelerometer (Each colume for Axis X,Y,Z / Ave. and STD) - 6 columns.
* TimeGravityAccelerometer: Gravity Acceleromete (Each colume for Axis X,Y,Z / Ave. and STD) - 6 columns.
* TimeBodyAccelerometerJerk: Body Accelerometer Jerk (Each colume for Axis X,Y,Z / Ave. and STD) - 6 columns.
* TimeBodyGyroscope: Body Gyroscope (Each colume for Axis X,Y,Z / Ave. and STD) - 6 columns.
* TimeBodyGyroscopeJerk: Body Gyroscope Jerk (Each colume for Axis X,Y,Z / Ave. and STD) - 6 columns.
* TimeBodyAccelerometerMagnitude: Body Accelerometer Magnitude (Ave. and STD) - 2 columns.
* TimeGravityAccelerometerMagnitude: Gravity Accelerometer Magnitude (Ave. and STD) - 2 columns.
* TimeBodyAccelerometerJerkMagnitude: Body Accelerometer Jerk Magnitude (Ave. and STD) - 2 columns.
* TimeBodyGyroscopeMagnitude: Body Gyroscope Magnitude (Ave. and STD) - 2 columns.
* TimeBodyGyroscopeJerkMagnitude: Body Gyroscope Jerk Magnitude (Ave. and STD) - 2 columns.
* FrequencyBodyAccelerometer: Frequency Body Accelerometer (Each colume for Axis X,Y,Z / Ave. and STD) - 6 columns.
* FrequencyBodyAccelerometerJerk: Frequency Body Accelerometer Jerk (Each colume for Axis X,Y,Z / Ave. and STD) - 6 columns.
* FrequencyBodyGyroscope: Frequency Body Gyroscope (Each colume for Axis X,Y,Z / Ave. and STD) - 6 columns.
* FrequencyBodyAccelerometerMagnitude: Frequency Body Accelerometer Magnitude (Ave. and STD) - 2 columns.
* FrequencyBodyAccelerometerJerkMagnitude: Frequency Body Accelerometer Jerk Magnitude (Ave. and STD) - 2 columns.
* FrequencyBodyGyroscopeMagnitude: Frequency Body Gyroscope Magnitude (Ave. and STD) - 2 columns.
* FrequencyBodyGyroscopeJerkMagnitude: Frequency Body Gyroscope Jerk Magnitude (Ave. and STD) - 2 columns.


## Original description of raw data signals:

Feature Selection 
=================

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

tBodyAcc-XYZ
tGravityAcc-XYZ
tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
tBodyGyro-XYZ
tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
tBodyAccMag
tGravityAccMag
tBodyAccJerkMag
tBodyGyroMag
tBodyGyroJerkMag
fBodyAcc-XYZ
fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
fBodyGyro-XYZ
fBodyAccMag
fBodyAccJerkMag
fBodyGyroMag
fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

mean(): Mean value
std(): Standard deviation
mad(): Median absolute deviation 
max(): Largest value in array
min(): Smallest value in array
sma(): Signal magnitude area
energy(): Energy measure. Sum of the squares divided by the number of values. 
iqr(): Interquartile range 
entropy(): Signal entropy
arCoeff(): Autorregresion coefficients with Burg order equal to 4
correlation(): correlation coefficient between two signals
maxInds(): index of the frequency component with largest magnitude
meanFreq(): Weighted average of the frequency components to obtain a mean frequency
skewness(): skewness of the frequency domain signal 
kurtosis(): kurtosis of the frequency domain signal 
bandsEnergy(): Energy of a frequency interval within the 64 bins of the FFT of each window.
angle(): Angle between to vectors.

Additional vectors obtained by averaging the signals in a signal window sample. These are used on the angle() variable:

gravityMean
tBodyAccMean
tBodyAccJerkMean
tBodyGyroMean
tBodyGyroJerkMean

The complete list of variables of each feature vector is available in 'features.txt'
